add recipe for jupyterlab dev spaces (#107)
huggingface/cookbook: notebooks/en/enterprise_cookbook_dev_spaces.md

# Interactive Development In HF Spaces

> Services like Google Colab or Kaggle Notebooks have made it dramatically easier for people to access compute in easy-to-use Jupyter notebooks in the browser. Unfortunately these services also have several limitations: GPUs are not stable and a training job can just be cancelled right before it finishes; the choice of GPUs is limited to just a few single GPUs; and there is no native support for connecting to the cloud GPU via your preferred local IDE like VS Code. 

Reviewer: Easier to read in a list form like this.

```suggestion
Services like Google Colab or Kaggle Notebooks have made it dramatically easier for people to access compute in easy-to-use Jupyter notebooks in the browser. Unfortunately, these services also have several limitations: 

- GPUs are unstable, and a training job can be canceled right before it finishes.
- The choice of GPUs is limited to just a few single GPUs.
- There is no native support for connecting to the cloud GPU via your preferred local IDE like VS Code. 
```

> HF JupyterLab Spaces overcome these limitations. With a HF JupyterLab Space, you can do all of your development work in JupyterLab in your browser; you can dynamically switch between CPUs and a wide range of GPUs that never stop unless you want them to; and you can connect to these cloud compute resources with your preferred local IDE like VS Code via SSH for full remote development. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HF JupyterLab Spaces overcome these limitations. With a HF JupyterLab Space, you can:

- Do all of your development work in JupyterLab in your browser.
- Dynamically switch between CPUs and a wide range of GPUs that never stop unless you want them to.
- Connect to cloud compute resources with your preferred local IDE like VS Code via SSH for full remote development. 
```

This recipe guides you though the setup of your own JupyterLab Space.

> ## 1. Interactive Development in HF JupyterLab Spaces

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Interactive Development in HF JupyterLab Spaces
```

### Creating your JupyterLab Space

> To create your own HF JupyterLab Space, navigate to the [Space creation page](https://huggingface.co/new-space?template=SpacesExamples%2Fjupyterlab) and click on `Docker` > `JupyterLab`. A HF JupyterLab Space is essentially a Docker container with a pre-configured copy of JupyterLab that runs on Hugging Face's cloud infrastructure. Here is some advice on figuring your JupyterLab Space: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create your own HF JupyterLab Space, navigate to the [Space creation page](https://huggingface.co/new-space?template=SpacesExamples%2Fjupyterlab) and click on `Docker` > `JupyterLab`. A HF JupyterLab Space is essentially a Docker container with a pre-configured copy of JupyterLab that runs on Hugging Face's cloud infrastructure. Here is some advice on configuring your JupyterLab Space: 
```

- **Choosing your hardware**: You can choose from a wide range of hardware from free CPUs to A100 GPUs. When setting up the Space, we recommend you choose the free basic CPU. You can switch to better paid hardware once you need it (see available hardware and prices [here](https://huggingface.co/pricing)). 

> - **Persistent storage**: It is important to attach persistent storage to the Space, so that all the files you create (code, models, data) is also saved when the Space is paused or reset. You can always increase the disk space in the settings later when necessary. All persistet data is stored in the `/data` directory ([docs](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/en/spaces-storage)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Persistent storage**: It is important to attach persistent storage to the Space, so that all the files you create (code, models, data) are also saved when the Space is paused or reset. You can always increase the disk space in the settings later when necessary. All persistent data is stored in the `/data` directory ([docs](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/en/spaces-storage)).
```

- **Set your password**: Once the Space is created, it will require a password for logging into JupyterLab. This password is defined with the `JUPYTER_TOKEN` Space secret. If you do not define a password here, the default password is "huggingface". 

> - **Dev Mode**: Dev Mode is a feature for Enterprise Hub subscribers which enables you to SSH into any HF Space. Activate this to be able to connect your local VS Code for remote development on the Space's cloud hardware (this can also be switched on/off later). See the preview docs [here](https://huggingface.co/dev-mode-explorers). 

Reviewer: Should we mention this is a beta feature or is that just for non-PRO and non-Enterprise users?

```suggestion
- **Dev Mode**: Dev Mode is a feature for Enterprise Hub subscribers that enables you to SSH into any HF Space. Activate this to connect your local VS Code for remote development on the Space's cloud hardware (this can also be switched on/off later). See the preview docs [here](https://huggingface.co/dev-mode-explorers). 
```

### Dynamically switching between CPUs and GPUs

Similar to services like Google Colab, you can change the hardware the Space is running on-the-fly. We recommend doing initial setup work on the upgraded or free CPU, for example data cleaning, setting up Endpoints, or testing APIs. Once your code is set up, you can simply click on `Settings` at the top right of the Space and change to a wide selection of hardware that might be required for more compute intensive inference or training jobs. When you change hardware, the Space will restart itself and all environment variables will be lost (like with Google Colab) and you will have a new clean environment on the new hardware after some seconds. Your stored and saved files (code, data etc.) will of course also be available on the new hardware. The image below shows the available hardware at the time of writing (June 2024) and this will be updated in the future. 

> In the bottom left of the image, you can also see the `Sleep time settings` where you can define how long you want the hardware to run in case of inactivity. This is a major advantage over Google Colab: if you want to save money, you can make the Space sleep after 15 minutes of inactivity, but if you need the hardware to be available for a 48 hour training run or longer, you can just prevent the Space from falling asleep and let it run for as long as you want. You can also manually `Pause` the Space and you will no longer be charged for the Space Hardware. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the bottom left of the image, you can also see the `Sleep time settings` where you can define how long you want the hardware to run in case of inactivity. This is a major advantage over Google Colab. If you want to save money, you can make the Space sleep after 15 minutes of inactivity, but if you need the hardware to be available for a 48 hour training run or longer, you can just prevent the Space from falling asleep and let it run for as long as you want. You can also manually `Pause` the Space and you will no longer be charged for the Space Hardware. 
```

> If you scroll down in the settings, you will see additional options, like expanding storage, resetting the space etc. In case you have not set a password during Space creation, you can also create a secret called `JUPYTER_TOKEN` here later, which will replace the default "huggingface" password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you scroll down in the settings, you will see additional options, like expanding storage, resetting the Space, etc. In case you have not set a password during Space creation, you can also create a secret called `JUPYTER_TOKEN` here later, which will replace the default "huggingface" password.
```

> [!TIP]

> > When you actively work with the space over several days or weeks, files will start accumulating in the storage cache. When you get a warning that the storage is full and you think that the storage quote should not be reached yet, it might be helpful to factory reset the Space to empty the cache. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> When you actively work with the Space over several days or weeks, files accumulate in the storage cache. When you get a warning that the storage is full and you think that the storage quote should not be reached yet, it might be helpful to factory reset the Space to empty the cache. 
```

Reviewer 2: Maybe we can mention attaching persistent storage?https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/en/spaces-storage#persistent-storage

Author: I had this issue of data accumulating in the cache with persistent storage as well and persistent storage is mentioned further above. Implemented the other suggestions for the paragraph

### Customizing your JupyterLab Space

> Remember that your JupyterLab Space is just a pre-configured Docker container, so if you are familiar with Docker, you can also customize it to your needs. For example, you can go to the `Files` section of your Space and add new requirements to the `requirements.txt` file or you can change from the default container image to another image in the `Dockerfile` e.g. if you need a specific CUDA and PyTorch version preinstalled. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remember that your JupyterLab Space is just a pre-configured Docker container, so if you are familiar with Docker, you can also customize it to your needs. For example, you can go to the `Files` section of your Space and add new requirements to the `requirements.txt` file or you can change from the default container image to another image in the `Dockerfile`, e.g. if you need a specific CUDA and PyTorch version preinstalled. 
```

> ## 2. Dev Mode, or: Develop on 4 GPUs from your local VS Code

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Develop on Hugging Face Spaces from your local VSCode using Dev Mode
```

> What if you don't like working in JupyterLab in the browser? Enter `Dev Mode`. `Dev Mode` enables you to SSH into any Space's hardware from their local IDE like VS Code. [HF Pro/Enterprise](https://huggingface.co/pricing) subscribers can activate `Dev Mode` for any Space in the Space's settings. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What if you don't like working in JupyterLab in the browser? Enter `Dev Mode`. `Dev Mode` enables you to SSH into any Space's hardware from a local IDE like VS Code. [HF Pro/Enterprise](https://huggingface.co/pricing) subscribers can activate `Dev Mode` for any Space in the Space's settings. 
```

> Once `Dev Mode` is activated, you will see a pop-up at the bottom left of your JupyterLab Space's window. To SSH into your local VS Code, you first need to install the [VS Code Remote - SSH extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-ssh) locally and add your SSH key to your [HF Profile](https://huggingface.co/settings/keys). Clicking on `Connect with VS Code` should then open your local VS Code window and establish the remote connection to your space. A similar process should be possible with any IDE that supports remote development with SSH. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once `Dev Mode` is activated, you will see a pop-up at the bottom left of your JupyterLab Space's window. To SSH into your local VS Code, you first need to install the [VS Code Remote - SSH extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-ssh) locally and add your SSH key to your [HF Profile](https://huggingface.co/settings/keys). Clicking on `Connect with VS Code` should then open your local VS Code window and establish the remote connection to your Space. A similar process should be possible with any IDE that supports remote development with SSH. 
```

When connecting to your Space with SSH, your default directory will be an empty `/app` directory. You then need to change to the `/data` directory, where all your persistent files (code, data, models etc.) are stored. The `/data` directory is the only directory with guaranteed file persistance across sessions. You can find the files of your Docker container in the `HOME/user/app` directory, in case you want to modify the underlying Docker container. 

> [!TIP]
> Persisted files in the `/data` directory are currently not automatically backed up. We therefore recommend making backups of your most important files on a regular basis to avoid accidental data loss. 

> > [!TIP]

Reviewer: Maybe explicitly mention this in `### Creating your JupyterLab Space` where Private Spaces is described to avoid redundancy and a back-to-back Tip.
